Steep Orchid Mole

high

# Unrestricted Function Accessibility (Unauthorized Access)

## Summary
The **setQuorumThreshold** function in the contract does not have proper access control measures. This function is critical as it defines the quorum required for important decision-making processes. Without proper access control, any account can call this function and manipulate the quorum threshold, leading to unauthorized governance changes.
## Vulnerability Detail
The function **setQuorumThreshold** is intended to update the quorum threshold for decision-making. However, this function is not guarded by any access control mechanism (**onlyGovernor**, **onlyOwner**, etc.), allowing any external account to call it. This can lead to unauthorized changes in the governance process, severely affecting the integrity of the contract.
## Impact
If exploited, an attacker can lower the quorum threshold to a minimal percentage, allowing decisions to be made with a minimal number of votes. This can lead to unauthorized actions being approved, such as fund misappropriation or protocol parameter manipulation. It represents a direct threat to the governance process and could lead to loss of funds or trust in the contract's governance system.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/BlockSpecimenProofChain.sol#L252-L255
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement access control for the **setQuorumThreshold** function. Only authorized roles (e.g., governance or owner) should be able to call this function. This can be achieved by adding a modifier like **onlyGovernor** or **onlyOwner** to restrict access.

```solidity
function setQuorumThreshold(uint256 quorum) public onlyGovernor {
    _blockSpecimenQuorum = quorum;
    emit SpecimenSessionQuorumChanged(quorum);
}
```
