Ripe Snowy Turtle

medium

# Frontrunning `rewardValidators()` for instant rewards

## Summary

The `exchangeRate` for validators is accumulated every 12 hours when the staking manager calls `rewardValidators()`. This produces a stepwise jump in rewards for stakers because it creates a difference from the previous `exchangeRate` to the new `exchangeRate`. 
## Vulnerability Detail
Imagine an active validator is going to be rewarded with 1,000e18 `amount` via `rewardValidators()` which updates the `exchangeRate`.

A MEV bot frontruns the `rewardValidators()` call and stakes 1,000 tokens via `_stake()`. For simplicity, assume that the `exchangeRate` at this point is X. They get credited for staking 1,000 tokens. Then the `rewardValidators()` call goes through after the frontrun, and the `exchangeRate` increases from X to X + 0.005e18.

The MEV bot can immediately claim rewards of 5e18 tokens because of the stepwise increase in rewards based on the difference in the `exchangeRate` when it was increased. Instead of having to wait up to 12 hours to obtain any rewards, basically getting an extra 12 hours worth of rewards in one instant.

They also do not have to claim immediately, but could compound this every 12 hours for a period of time before cashing out.

## Impact
MEV bots can claim instant rewards every 12 hours from all validators. Granted, they have a 28 delay to withdraw their initial collateral, but they get a free instant reward boost as if they staked for the first 12 hours. 

## Code Snippet
`exchangeRate` accumulation: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L308
`s.shares` for staker: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L440
`s.staked` for staker: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L443
`totalValue` calculation: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L599
`_redeemRewards()` Rewards instantly transferred: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L634

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider a smooth reward curve based on the number of seconds someone has been staking.
Consider penalties for instantly withdrawing rewards.
