Future Saffron Kangaroo

high

# Validator and delagators can bypass the unstaking cool down period

## Summary
Validator and delagators can bypass the unstaking cool down period
## Vulnerability Detail
When a validator is added in the `addValidator` function, its `disabledAtBlock` is set to 1 to show the validator has been added but not yet enabled. (enabled validators have a `disabledAtBlock` value of 0)
```solidity
    function addValidator(address validator, uint128 commissionRate) external onlyStakingManager whenNotPaused returns (uint256 id) {
        require(commissionRate < DIVIDER, "Rate must be less than 100%");
        require(validator != address(0), "Validator address is 0");
        Validator storage v = _validators[validatorsN]; // use current number of validators for the id of a new validator instance
        v._address = validator;
        v.exchangeRate = uint128(DIVIDER); // make it 1:1 initially
        v.commissionRate = commissionRate;
        v.disabledAtBlock = 1; // set it to 1 to indicate that the validator is disabled
```
The validator must now stake an amount >= `validatorEnableMinStake` then the stakingManager can enable the validator. The problem here is that the validator can call `unstake` while the validator has not yet been activated yet. This will add his his unstake request to the `unstakings` mapping and given how the code is writen, once the validator is active, the validator can instantly unstake any stakes given that he stakes more than the original stake.
```solidity
        uint128 coolDownEnd = uint128(v.disabledAtBlock != 0 ? v.disabledAtBlock : block.number);
        unchecked {
            coolDownEnd += (isValidator ? validatorCoolDown : delegatorCoolDown);
        }
        uint128 unstakeId = uint128(v.unstakings[msg.sender].length);
        v.unstakings[msg.sender].push(Unstaking(coolDownEnd, effectiveAmount));
        emit Unstaked(validatorId, msg.sender, effectiveAmount, unstakeId);
```
as we can see if `v.disabledAtBlock` != 0 then we set `coolDownEnd` to `v.disabledAtBlock` and if the validator has yet to be enabled once, this will be 1. next we add `validatorCoolDown` to `coolDownEnd`. Given that we added 1 to the validator cool down, we can be certain that the validator can unstake instantly, unless the `validatorCoolDown` is > the number of total block ever on the ethereum mainnet which is/ will not be the case. Now validator has an unstakings which can be unstaked at any time without waiting. The validator is then enabled by the `stakingManager`. Once the validator is activated by the staking manager, if the validator decides to stake more than `validatorEnableMinStake` (the original amount he staked), he can and these can be unstaked instantly given that he abused the bug to get a queued unstake in the Unstakings mapping.

## POC
1. validator is added by stakingManager but not yet enabled. disabledAtBlock is set to 1
2. validator or delegator queue and unstake before the validator is active to abuse disabledAtBlock being 1
3. cooldown is set to cooldown + 1. This will mean that the validator or delegator can essentially unstake instantly.
4. validator or delegator wait for the validator to be enabled. 
5. They can now unstake whenever they want, they can unstake after 1 reward if they want and they will not have to wait the cool down period.

___This exploit can also be done by the delegators to also bypass cool down period___
side note: i only included validators in the original report and forgot to add that delegators can also abuse this.

## Impact
Validators and delegators do not have to wait for cool down to unstake, allowing them to gain rewards without the implied risk of having to keep tokens staked past the cool down period.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/218d4a583286fa0d3d4263151a927f6cc9465b62/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L242-L257

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/218d4a583286fa0d3d4263151a927f6cc9465b62/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L529-L537

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/218d4a583286fa0d3d4263151a927f6cc9465b62/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L559-L572
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
this is complicated, not sure how to accurately give a good recommendation. Would not want to give bad advice.