Cheerful Syrup Parakeet

medium

# The coolDown mechanism can be bypassed for some validators

## Summary

The coolDown mechanism can be bypassed for some validators

## Vulnerability Detail

When a user makes a unstake, the protocol will use a coolDown mechanism to delay the user's actual withdrawal.

function _unstake:

```solidity
// create unstaking instance
        uint128 coolDownEnd = uint128(v.disabledAtBlock != 0 ? v.disabledAtBlock : block.number);
        unchecked {
            coolDownEnd += (isValidator ? validatorCoolDown : delegatorCoolDown);
        }
        uint128 unstakeId = uint128(v.unstakings[msg.sender].length);
        v.unstakings[msg.sender].push(Unstaking(coolDownEnd, effectiveAmount));
```

function transferUnstakedOut:

```solidity
require(uint128(block.number) > us.coolDownEnd, "Cooldown period has not ended");
```

However, combined with the function `redelegateUnstaked`, some validators can bypass the coolDown mechanism, thereby completing instant unstakes and withdrawals.

The attack scenario is as follows:

1. The protocol adds a validator A (the attacker), and initially disabledAtBlock is 1.
2. Validator A acts as a delegator to stake on other active validators.
3. Validator A unstake from other active validators (labeled usX for convenience).
4. For usX, validator A uses the function `redelegateUnstaked` to delegate it to himself/herself.
    
    The only check is:
    
    ```solidity
    require(newStaked <= validatorMaxStake, "Validator max stake exceeded");
    ```
    
5. Unstake from himself/herself. Since disabledAtBlock is 1, coolDownEnd will be 1+validatorCoolDown, which means there is a high probability that it is smaller than block.number. So withdrawals can be made directly.

## Impact

The coolDown mechanism can be bypassed for some validators

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L523-L536

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L664-L684

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

In function `redelegateUnstaked`, disable msg.sender as newValidator.