Wild Bronze Marmot

medium

# No option to change validator address without also transferring unstakings, leads to lost rewards when a validator has taken more than 300 unstakings (even if through normal usage)

## Summary

In the repository's README, it is stated that:

> In case if there are more than 300 unstakings, there is an option to transfer the address without unstakings.

when describing the option for a validator to change their address.

`OperationalStaking`'s comment also mentions the same possiblity:

```solidity
/*
 * Changes the validator staking address, this will transfer validator staking data and optionally unstakings
 */
function setValidatorAddress(uint128 validatorId, address newAddress) external whenNotPaused {
```

In this report, we prove that transferring unstakings is compulsory, and not optional, not even with the help of an admin or staking manager. Through this we determine its impacts.

## Vulnerability Detail

The function `setValidatorAddress`, according to the comments, "changes the validator staking address, this will transfer validator staking data and optionally unstakings". However, the current implementation is as follow:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L689-L711

```solidity
function setValidatorAddress(uint128 validatorId, address newAddress) external whenNotPaused {
    //...

    Unstaking[] storage oldUnstakings = v.unstakings[msg.sender];
    uint256 length = oldUnstakings.length;
    require(length <= 300, "Cannot transfer more than 300 unstakings");
    Unstaking[] storage newUnstakings = v.unstakings[newAddress];
    for (uint128 i = 0; i < length; ++i) {
        newUnstakings.push(oldUnstakings[i]);
    }
    delete v.unstakings[msg.sender];

    //...
}
```

There is no option for the validator to select whether to transfer their unstakings or not. This means, if even through normal operation, the validator has made 301 or more unstakings, they will not be able to use `setValidatorAddress()` to change their address.

Admins also do not have a workaround to transfer the address because:
- There is no function for the admin to directly change a validator's address.
- While an admin can add a new validator, they cannot transfer the old validator's staking over.

We prove the second point with a proof of concept:
- Alice's validator address is A1. She wants to change the address to A2.
    - It is a given that A1 must have at least $35000$ CQT staked to be a validator.
- Alice has accumulated too many unstakes through usage. She contacts the admin to change her validator.
- Admin disables A1, and adds a new validator for Alice.
- Alice can unstake all of A1's stake, but this amount is locked for 6 months.
- This amount cannot be re-staked to A2 right away, not even through `redelegateUnstaked()`.
    - This is because of [the following check](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L672) in `redelegateUnstaked()`. A1 is still the address of the old validator, so attempting to transfer the stakes to the validator of A2 reverts here.
```solidity
require(v._address != msg.sender, "Validator cannot redelegate");
```
Furthermore, in `_stake()`, there is also a check that the validator themselves must be the one to stake an initial amount of at least $35000$ CQT, before they can receive any delegators.

Proof completes. Alice can ask the admin to provide her a new validator profile, but must still buy at least $35000$ CQT to enable her validator. This is equivalent to setting up a new validator entirely.

The impact grows in relative to the amount of stake that A1 (defined in the above PoC) has. Quoting the repository's README:

> The reward is distributed proportionally to how much each operator has staked and how much is delegated to that operator.

Then Alice was forced to forfeit the staking rewards that A1 would've accrued in the 6 months unstaking cooldown, which amount grows when A1's staking amount was large.

## Impact

Any validator who has accumulated more than 300 unstakes cannot change their address, as opposed to what the docs and the code comment has defined. Since locked unstaking could've been staked to the new validator, the migrated validator loses 6 months' worth of rewards.

Quoting the Sherlock criteria for issue validity:

> **Medium:** There is a viable scenario (even if unlikely) that could cause the protocol to enter a state where a material amount of funds can be lost. The attack path is possible with assumptions that either mimic on-chain conditions or reflect conditions that have a reasonable chance of becoming true in the future.

Given that making 301 unstakings is possible with normal usage, and that it has been proven that an intended functionality is missing, we believe this fits into the criteria for Medium severity.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L689-L711

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

The fix should consist of two steps:
- Implement a boolean parameter through `setValidatorAddress()`, for whether the validator migrating address would want to transfer their unstakings.
- Add a new `bool isValidatorUnstake` to `struct Unstaking`, setting to true if and only if an unstaking was done by the validator. 
    - This is because, if not carefully mitigated, then `setValidatorAddress()` may allow a validator to turn their old address into a delegator, which then allows them to bypass the unstaking cooldown (from 6 months down to 28 days) by re-staking then unstaking to/from themselves.
