Steep Orchid Mole

medium

# Potential Reentrancy in finalizeSpecimenSession (Risk of Reentrancy Attack)

## Summary
The **finalizeSpecimenSession** function contains state changes after external calls, potentially making it susceptible to reentrancy attacks. This risk arises from external calls within the function that can be exploited by a malicious actor to re-enter the contract before it completes its execution.
## Vulnerability Detail
The **finalizeSpecimenSession** function updates several state variables and performs external calls to emit events. If any of the external calls lead to untrusted contracts, it might be possible for an attacker to re-enter the **finalizeSpecimenSession** function and manipulate the contract state or perform actions in an unintended sequence.
## Impact
A successful reentrancy attack could lead to disruption in the contract logic, double-spending, or unauthorized actions being performed within the contract.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/BlockSpecimenProofChain.sol#L8-L10

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/BlockSpecimenProofChain.sol#L397
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
To mitigate the risk of reentrancy attacks, ensure that all state changes occur before any external calls or event emissions. You can also utilize the Checks-Effects-Interactions pattern, where:

1. **Checks**: Perform all necessary checks and validations first.
2. **Effects**: Make all state changes after the checks.
3. **Interactions**: After the state changes, perform external calls or interactions.

Refactor the **finalizeSpecimenSession** function to adhere to this pattern. Additionally, consider using the **ReentrancyGuard** modifier from **OpenZeppelin** to prevent reentrancy. Here's how you might apply the modifier:

```solidity
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/security/ReentrancyGuard.sol";

contract BlockSpecimenProofChain is OwnableUpgradeable, ReentrancyGuard {
    ...
    function finalizeSpecimenSession(uint64 chainId, uint64 blockHeight) public nonReentrant {
        // Function logic
    }
    ...
}
```

By adding the **nonReentrant** modifier to the **finalizeSpecimenSession** function, you ensure that no nested (reentrant) calls can be made to the function, effectively mitigating the risk of reentrancy attacks.