Steep Orchid Mole

medium

# Lack of Input Validation in setValidatorAddress Function

## Summary
The **setValidatorAddress** function in the contract is designed to change the validator's address. However, there is a lack of proper input validation, which may lead to potential vulnerabilities or unexpected behavior in the contract.
## Vulnerability Detail
The function **setValidatorAddress** allows changing the address associated with a validator. However, it doesn't check if the new address is already in use by another validator. This might lead to a scenario where two validators are associated with the same address, potentially causing conflicts or inconsistencies in the contract's state.
## Impact
The lack of input validation could lead to unauthorized control over multiple validators, affecting the integrity and security of the staking process.
If two validators are associated with the same address, it might lead to unauthorized access or control over multiple validators by a single entity. This can affect the integrity of the staking process and the distribution of rewards.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L689
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L709
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement a check to ensure that the **newAddress** is not already associated with an existing validator. This can be achieved by maintaining a mapping of addresses to validator IDs and verifying that the address is not already in use before allowing the update. Here's a code snippet illustrating this:

```solidity
// Add a mapping to track addresses associated with validators
mapping(address => uint128) private addressToValidatorId;

function setValidatorAddress(uint128 validatorId, address newAddress) external whenNotPaused {
    require(validatorId < validatorsN, "Invalid validator");
    Validator storage v = _validators[validatorId];
    require(msg.sender == v._address, "Sender is not the validator");
    require(v._address != newAddress, "The new address cannot be the same as the current validator address");
    require(newAddress != address(0), "Invalid validator address");
    require(!v.frozen, "Validator is frozen");
    require(addressToValidatorId[newAddress] == 0, "Address is already in use by another validator");

    // Update the mapping
    addressToValidatorId[v._address] = 0;
    addressToValidatorId[newAddress] = validatorId;

    v._address = newAddress;
    //...
}
```
