Shaggy Cedar Cottonmouth

medium

# BlockSpecimenProofChain::setMinSubmissionsRequired() accepts any number as  min submissions to reach quorum

## Summary
setMinSubmissionsRequired() functions lets the governor set the minimum number of submissions to any number. Based on the minimum number of submissions, the SpecimenSession will be finalized.

**Setting to 0**
Setting the minimum submissions to 0 lets the protocol to bypass the quorum and not healthy for the protocol.
The protocol should set a minimum quorum threshold value. It could be 2 as initialized for the contract.

The override should enforce a minimum of 2 which is not implemented. The risk is low, but smart contract should enforce to eliminate the human error. 

**Setting to large number**
Like wise, the upper bound for the _minSubmissionsRequired should also be restricted. Configuring a large number will prevent finalization of SpecimenSession creating problems in serving the purpose of the protocol.

The over cover being that governor access control, who is a trusted party.

## Vulnerability Detail
setMinSubmissionsRequired() accepts any value

## Impact
Could either defeat the purpose of quorum or prevent finalization of specimen sessions.

## Code Snippet
setMinSubmissionsRequired() function without any restrictions on the parameter value.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/BlockSpecimenProofChain.sol#L284-L287


https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/BlockSpecimenProofChain.sol#L397-L439

The below logic will prevent the specimen from finalization of session incase the _minSubmissionsRequired was set very high.

```solidity
        // check if the number of submissions is sufficient and if the quorum is achieved
        if (_minSubmissionsRequired <= max && (max * _DIVIDER) / contributorsN > _blockResultQuorum) {
            // TODO: doesn't free session space. Though it should.
            _finalizeWithParticipants(session, chainId, blockHeight, agreedBlockSpecimenHash, agreedResultHash);
        } else emit QuorumNotReached(chainId, blockHeight);
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Define an acceptable range of values and validate before setting the parameter to state variable.
