Suave Honeysuckle Camel

medium

# Reward Validators Function Incorrectly Assumes the Existence of Valid Validators

## Summary

The rewardValidators function lacks a crucial check to validate the existence of each validatorId. This oversight can potentially lead to scenarios where non-existent validators are referenced, possibly leading to incorrect or unintended behavior in reward distribution.

## Vulnerability Detail

The issue arises due to the absence of a check to ensure that each validatorId passed to the rewardValidators function corresponds to an actual, existing validator within the contract's state. The function iterates over an array of validatorIds, assuming each one is valid and associated with an existing validator. However, if a validatorId does not exist in the _validators mapping, the contract will still attempt to execute operations on this non-existent entry.

This means that if an invalid validatorId is passed, it could lead to undefined behavior or errors when accessing v.frozen, v.disabledAtBlock, v.totalShares.

## Impact

In a scenario where a non-existent validatorId is provided, the function could exhibit undefined behavior.

For a validatorId that does not correspond to a valid entry, the function might still deduct tokens from the rewardPool. Since the corresponding validator does not exist, these tokens effectively disappear from the pool without being correctly allocated, leading to a loss of funds.

Operations on a non-existent validator, such as updating commissionAvailableToRedeem or exchangeRate, could lead to inconsistencies in the contract's state. This might cause unpredictable behavior in subsequent transactions involving valid validators.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L262-#L279

```solidity
for (uint256 j = 0; j < ids.length; j++) {
    amount = amounts[j];
    validatorId = ids[j];

    // Missing check for the existence of validatorId
    Validator storage v = _validators[validatorId];

    // ... rest of the code ...
}
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Implement a validation check at the beginning of the loop to ensure that each validatorId exists. This can be done by comparing validatorId against the total number of validators (validatorsN) or by introducing a flag within the Validator struct to explicitly indicate if a validator exists. 

```solidity
for (uint256 j = 0; j < ids.length; j++) {
    validatorId = ids[j];

    // Check if validatorId is valid
+    require(validatorId < validatorsN, "Invalid validatorId");

    amount = amounts[j];
    Validator storage v = _validators[validatorId];

    // ... rest of the code ...
}

```

