Wild Bronze Marmot

medium

# Frontrunning validator freeze to withdraw tokens

## Summary

Covalent implements a freeze mechanism to disable malicious Validators, this allows the protocol to block all interactions with a validator when he behaves maliciously. 
Covalent also implements a timelock to ensure tokens are only withdraw after a certain amount of time. 
After the cooldown ends, tokens can always be withdrawn. 

Following problem arise now: 
because the tokens can always be withdrawn, a malicious Validator can listen for a potential "freeze" transaction in the mempool, front run this transaction to unstake his tokens and withdraw them after the cooldown end.

## Vulnerability Detail

Almost every action on the Operational Staking contract checks if the validator is frozen or not:

```solidity
 require(!v.frozen, "Validator is frozen");
```

The methods transferUnstakedOut() and recoverUnstaking() are both not checking for this, making the unstake transaction front runnable.
Here are the only checks of transferUnstakedOut():

```solidity
require(validatorId < validatorsN, "Invalid validator");
        require(_validators[validatorId].unstakings[msg.sender].length > unstakingId, "Unstaking does not exist");
        Unstaking storage us = _validators[validatorId].unstakings[msg.sender][unstakingId];
        require(us.amount >= amount, "Unstaking has less tokens");
```
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L559-L572

This makes following attack possible:
1. Validator cheats and gets rewarded fees.
2. Protocol notices the misbehavior and initiates a Freeze transaction
3. Validator sees the transaction and starts a unstake() transaction with higher gas.
4. Validator gets frozen, but the unstaking is already done
5. Validator waits for cooldown and withdraws tokens.

Now the validator has gained unfairly obtained tokens and withdrawn his stake.

## Impact

Malicious validators can front run freeze to withdraw tokens.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L559-L572

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Implement a check if validator is frozen on `transferUnstakedOut()` and `recoverUnstaking()`, and revert transaction if true.

If freezing all unstakings is undesirable (e.g. not freezing honest unstakes), the sponsor may consider storing the unstake timestamp as well:
- Store the unstaking block number for each unstake.
- Freeze the validator from a certain past block only, only unstakings that occur from that block onwards will get frozen.