Steep Orchid Mole

medium

# Unvalidated Removal of Operators in removeBSPOperator (Arbitrary Access Removal)

## Summary
The **removeBSPOperator** function allows removing a Block Specimen Producer (BSP) operator without properly validating the sender's permission or the legitimacy of the operator being removed.
## Vulnerability Detail
In the **removeBSPOperator** function, an operator can be removed by anyone with **onlyGovernor** permissions without additional checks. This could potentially allow a governor to remove legitimate BSP operators arbitrarily, affecting the integrity of the consensus mechanism or other critical functionalities.
## Impact
Unauthorized removal of BSP operators could disrupt the normal operation of the contract, potentially leading to denial of service for legitimate operators or other unintended consequences.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/BlockSpecimenProofChain.sol#L190-L191
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Ensure strict validation of operator removal requests. Consider the following steps:

1. **Operator Removal Authorization**: Similar to role assignment, ensure that only addresses with specific permissions can remove BSP operators. This might be a dedicated role or a multi-signature wallet.

2. **Use Access Control for Removal:** If you're using **OpenZeppelin's** **AccessControl**, ensure that the **removeBSPOperator** function can be called only by addresses having a specific role dedicated to managing BSP operators.
 
3. **Logging and Alerting**: Implement comprehensive logging for operator removal. Emit events for every removal operation and consider setting up off-chain monitoring to alert administrators of any removal activities.

Refactored **removeBSPOperator** function using **OpenZeppelin's** **AccessControl**:

```solidity
function removeBSPOperator(address operator) external onlyRole(BSP_MANAGER_ROLE) {
    require(operatorRoles[operator] == BLOCK_SPECIMEN_PRODUCER_ROLE, "Operator is not BSP");
    ...
}
```
In this example, only addresses with the **BSP_MANAGER_ROLE** can remove BSP operators, ensuring that removal is controlled and unauthorized removals are prevented.