Scrawny Blush Moth

high

# Sandwich Attack in Reward Validators

## Summary
The vulnerability in `OperationalStaking` allows a malicious validator to exploit transaction order by staking before and after the reward distribution, strategically claiming rewards meant for other validators. This front-running manipulation results in significant gains for the malicious actor, compromising the fairness of reward distribution

## Vulnerability Detail

The `OperationalStaking` contains a vulnerability in the `rewardValidators` functions that exposes it to potential sandwich attacks, a form of front-running manipulation in transaction order. The vulnerability arises when the owner deposits reward tokens into the contract so when `StakingManager` subsequently triggering the reward distribution to validators.
If a malicious validator closely monitors the transaction pool and pending transactions, they can identify the `rewardValidators` transaction and called stake function to "buy/mint" alot of shares_tokens, right before the `rewardValidators` transaction immediately accrue a portion of the collected rewards that were meant to be attributed to other validators. so after reward is distribute among validators, The malicious validator can then immediately claim these rewards(`redeemRewards`), unstake. therefore the malicious validator stealing rewards from other validator.


## Impact
The vulnerability allows a malicious validator to exploit transaction order, executing stake transactions strategically before and after reward distribution, leading to substantial gains through front-running and validator_shares manipulation.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L163-L170

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L262-L320

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L400-L402

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L458-L461

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-11-covalent/blob/main/cqt-staking/contracts/OperationalStaking.sol#L584-L587

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Don't allow `stakes` for a block or two before/after calling rewardValidators.